That's what I said.
And I said, the court here will use that term hostage.
Yes, yes, very nice.
Mr. Adams uses many terms just as all of us do, which are perhaps facetious, but he used
that term.
I know heLEY is the term Indian, to refer to staff members.
He used the term hostage almost from the time that Cheyenne went into the army.
I couldn't tell, frankly, at which time he was using it in a serious vein, which time
he was just getting about it.
At this point, he used the word hostage.
He asked me how the hostage was making up at Fort Dix.
I told him that I guess he was doing all right.
And then he said to me, well, maybe he could do a little better with some help from us.
I assumed that he meant himself for Secretary Stevens.
I said that as far as I was concerned, he was doing all right.
And he said, well, now I'd say, maybe he could do a little better with a little help.
And he said, what's there in it for us if we do something for Sean?
Now he didn't say, what's there in it for Stevens and me?
He said, what's there in it for us if we do something for Sean?
I told him that I didn't think there would be anything in it for him if he did it, something
for Sean.
I thought that afternoon I wrote a memorandum to Senator McCarthy in which I said, again,
today John Adams came down here after the hearings and using clever phrases, tried to find
out what's there in it for us.
And he and Stevens did something for Sean.
He refers to Sean as our hostage, or the hostage, whenever his name comes up.
I made it clear that as far as I was concerned, I don't personally care what treatment they
gave Sean.
And that as far as I was concerned, he was in the army.
I did say that I thought it wasn't fair.
This is the memorandum of December 9th.
I did say that I thought it wasn't fair of them to take it out on Sean because we were
investigating the army, but I keep using it to try to stop our investigation.
I told him the only contact we were authorized to have with him about Sean was on Investigations
Committee Business.
There were other things in the memorandum.
That's about the substance.
Now for the statements that you get for you, this contained in your memorandum of December
9th.
Yes, sir.
I dictated that memorandum following our conversation.
Now have you stated the substance of your conversation with Mr. Adams on December 9th?
Yes, sir.
It's best I recall now.
Well, you present on the occasion of the luncheon that the Carol Arons on December 10th.
Yes, sir.
I was.
State very briefly.
The conversation there.
I believe Mr. Adams, Mr. Stevens and Senator McCarthy were also present.
Yes, sir.
So that morning the Senator asked me if I wanted to have lunch with him at the Carol Arons.
He said that the Secretary would be there and Mr. Adams.
We had lunch, the Secretary and Mr. Adams and the Senator were discussing the possibility
of some end to the hearings at the point moment.
The Secretary and Mr. Adams again brought up the argument that the Army now had all
of the information they needed and that the Subcommittee had helped the Army by having
some of these hearings and the Army now could handle the situation.
They thought that the hearing should be terminated.
Senator McCarthy was not committed about the ending of the hearings.
He pointed out that he wanted to have some hearings, at least executive hearings, with
members of the loyalty boards who had allowed some of these communist court moments to remain
in their jobs after investigations had been conducted of them.
That's about the...
What was the attitude of Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams, the purpose to the Senator's statement
about calling the loyalty boards?
Well, throughout the entire period of the Fourth Monument's investigation, so I believe
that back in October sometime when a man referred to here as Mr. X had appeared, the
President, John Adams had taken a position that it would not be a good thing for the loyalty
board members to be called in.
The Secretary seemed to affirm that position at this luncheon.
I don't specifically recall what the Secretary said at that luncheon.
Yes, sir.
Very briefly.
There was some conversation concerning him.
Somebody I don't know what was brought up the fact that he was at fix.
The Secretary said that he was doing well in his training or words without effect.
He mentioned that basic training was an important thing and that everybody had to do it.
I remember that that touched off rather long dissertation by Senator McCarthy concerning
his own basic training in the Marine Corps that included a vivid description of calling
through modern.
I think it was good for 20 minutes.
Well, with any bait, I'll put up on that occasion.
Not that I recall.
I wouldn't say so.
The sick test even developed referred to as young man, John, as a hostage.
No, sir, not for my knowledge.
Now, Mr. Carr, have you stated the substance of conversations of December 10 that relate
to your job?
Yes, sir.
That's the right time.
Now, let's go to December 17th, in the update of the celebrated luncheon and Carr.
You were present.
Yes, sir.
And I've taken you a present at the hearings on the morning of December 17th.
There were hearings that morning on the Port Mama's investigation.
What was the subject of conversation during the luncheon and the substance could call
at on December 17th?
When Mr. Carr and I arrived at Gassnuss, restaurant, which is about a block away from the courthouse
in New York, Mr. Adams and the Senator were already there.
There was some general conversation, and then I recall the Senator saying that John has
brought up the subject of law again.
This touched off a conversation, some length, I wouldn't say a conversation was a monologue,
but Mr. Carr, at this point on the subject of general law and reprisals made against persons
who had helped the subcommittee in some way, he said that to remove general law and
would be a disgraceful thing.
He said that a man should not be punished for helping a subcommittee and certainly Senator
McCartney should not say bye and allow a man of general law and statute to be punished
in any way for assisting in the investigation of the subcommittee.
He brought up the fact that as a result of previous investigations of the subcommittee, several
persons in the voice of America had been conveniently dropped at the end of the investigation.
He made quite a point of it.
He said that the subcommittee and no investigative agency could last very long if it would sit back
and allow persons who help it to be the subject of reprisals.
I recall that there was some conversation about the Senator being subdued.
The Senator was in agreement with Mr. Carr, and because he was quiet, I don't think it means he was subdued.
He agreed with Mr. Carr.
He said that he thought that he could not order the army about and tell the army what it could do with its generals,
but he fully agreed with Mr. Carr.
A praise of the situation.
Throughout the conversation, Mr. Adams didn't get many words in, but Mr. Adams kept trying to interject himself
by making statements which I recall in substance as this.
Let's talk about shine.
All right, let's talk about shine.
Mr. Cohn replied rather heatedly, I don't want to talk about shine.
Let's talk about what we're talking about, and we did talk about what.
When the luncheon had been served in the evening, we proceeded outside the building.
Mr. Cohn's car was parked nearby, and he offered us a ride up town.
Mr. Adams said that he was going to Penn Station, and he would grab a cab.
I recall that Mr. Cohn said, he gave him a lift.
Adams was concerned about making a certain train, I don't know which one it was.
We went up town, and as we got to Fourth Avenue, I'm not sure whether at that point it's Fourth or Park Avenue,
but it's all the same in New York at various points.
We got to about 34th Street and Park Thurund Street and Park Avenue,
and Mr. Cohn tried to make a left turn.
There was an officer there who was not much influenced by Mr. Cohn,
and we went through, as we had to, a tunnel arrangement in the middle of the avenue,
which made the next available exit, something like Park Avenue in 46th or 48th Street,
not sure the number of the street.
As I recall it, Mr. Adams was getting a big disturbed about the train,
and he thought that he might not make it.
Mr. Adams kept saying, let me out, let me out.
I got to make the train, and he said, I'll take you over, don't worry about it.
When we got to this intersection at about 46th Street, Mr. Adams said, I'll take a cab.
At that point, I think Mr. Cohn said it.
I don't know whether he said it or I just assume that he would say it at any rate,
we were near the curb in the first lane of traffic, as I recall.
Mr. Adams got out, Mr. Cohn said, OK, take a cab, and Adams left.
I think he testified that he didn't make his train.
The senator and I and Mr. Cohn continued uptown through the walled up where the senator was staying.
The senator was not ejected from the car, I might say.
As we got uptown, after Mr. Adams left the car, the senator said to Roy that
the water situation would work out all right.
And as I've since learned, both the senator and Mr. Cohn contacted either the general or his aide that day or the next.
I have to recap the events of the December 17th.
I'll ask you if I'm correct when I state that your testimonial substance is that the animated monologue
which is spoke of of Mr. Cohn was precipitated by discussion of general law.
That's correct.
Mr. Adams tried on several occasions to swing the subject to shine, but he never got there.
Was Mr. Adams the emulating factor as far as the subject of shine was concerned?
Yes, he tried, but it didn't get the shine.
The subject was almost exclusively around general law.
Yes, correct.
And the general subject matter of reprisals against that person who had helped the committee.
Well, in what manner was the subject of shine injected into this piti conversation?
At the luncheon?
Yes.
It didn't get injected in beyond the point of saying, let's talk about shine, and that's how much is getting.
Was that the excuse?
That's Mr. Cohn wouldn't talk about shine. He wouldn't talk about what?
And he made no reference to the treatment of shine at days.
No, sir, not that I recall it all.
Now, have you stated the substance of the event of December 17th?
Yes, sir, as I recall.
Now, let's go to January 14th, which I believe is the occasion of Mr. Adams' visit to Europe.
Is that correct?
Yes, January 14th.
What was his purpose if he recalled in this team, your office, or January 14th?
Well, I don't know his purpose.
I can tell you what happened to him.
Mr. Adams came to the office in room 101.
Mr. Cohn and I were both present.
He asked if the hearings on Fort Marmot would resume.
There had been a recess of a few weeks while the staff was getting out its reports.
Mr. Cohn said he was sure that the chairman would resume the hearings when we had finished with the reports.
He said that there was a question of the loyalty board yet to be considered and that he was sure the senator would be interested in those.
Mr. Adams argued that, again, the same type of argument, he argued that the executive sessions had been held.
We had now had several public sessions.
He didn't think that there was any need to go into the loyalty board situation.
Mr. Cohn did not agree with him.
In fact, I didn't agree with him either.
Mr. Adams was a little upset by this, not terrifically so, but somewhat upset by this, and said that he thought that we, Mr. Cohn and myself, could have cooperated with him a little more.
He said that he had been trying to work with us and that we could cooperate with him.
He said that since we didn't want to cooperate with him, maybe he could try a little bit of quote, cooperation and quote himself.
He asked Mr. Cohn, how Mr. Cohn would like it if private shines were shipped over seas.
He said that China not even finished his basic training and that he didn't see any reason why Adams should link this up with this subject of cooperation.
He said that if after his training, and as far as he was concerned as soon as the reports were out, they wanted to ship shine overseas.
That was perfectly alright, but he said that because he had been with the subcommittee, he should not be shipped overseas without completing his training.
That's about the substance of that conversation.
I frankly thought that Mr. Adams was baiting Mr. Cohn at this time.
Now, is that the subject of which you had in mind when you dictated a memorandum to Senator McCarthy, did they defend you at 15, 1954?
Yes, sir. That afternoon, I went upstairs to see Senator McCarthy. As I recall, I either dictated a scribble of note to him saying that...
I thought that he would do well to try to talk to John Adams and see if they couldn't sort of calm him down on the subject.
I thought John Adams was baiting Roy a little more than necessary at this time and that's from someone.
Now, the example which you just stated was that the worst baiting that you noted in so far as Mr. Adams was concerned.
Yes, I think it was about the worst example of baiting yet.
And it's your testimony that Mr. Adams questioned about what would happen if Mr. Cohn was sent overseas.
It came about after a rather heated discussion concerning the production of members of the lawyers.
Yes, sir. That and the termination of the hairy.
Now, Mr. Cohn, what occurred of any significance on January 19th?
Well, on January 19th, Mr. Adams and the appeared before Senator McCarthy at a hearing at which loyalty for members had the request of the Cohn.
He appeared himself and said that he didn't think they should appear.
The Senator said that he had information and he wanted to question members of the lawyerly board concerning several matters including such things as fraud and misconduct.
And that he felt that the board members, just as any other government employee or citizen had to respond to a subpoena, then they might answer certain questions or not answer certain questions.
Now, when has the Senator requested the production of members of the lawyerly board?
I think that morning or the afternoon before.
And you speak in January 19th?
Yes.
And Mr. Adams came along?
That's correct.
And what was the senator's reaction to the failure to produce members of the lawyerly board?
Well, it'd be difficult to say.
I don't know what his reaction was.
I know what happened.
I know that as a result of Mr. Adams' appearance and the conversation that followed, Mr. Senator McCarthy and Mr. Adams agreed that by the following Friday, Mr. Adams would either produce or send over the person who was involved.
And so, the person who requested or he would at a certain time of the day tell upon me and subpoenas would be issued.
There was no argument.
Well, subpoenas was the production of members of the lawyerly board ever actually prepared.
Yes, subpoenas were prepared.
But they were never issued.
Never issued.
Do you know when those subpoenas were prepared?
In the day or so following Mr. Knight Heath meeting, I had them prepared.
Around January 20th, that's right.
Yes, sir.
On the 22nd, Mr. Adams was to call me and I had the subpoenas ready.
Well, did you ever conversation with Senator Dexon on January 22nd?
Yes.
On the morning in January 22nd, Senator Dexon called me and said that and asked me if I had issued the subpoenas,
or subpoenas had been issued to certain members of the lawyerly board.
And I told them that they were ready but they were not to be issued until later that day.
The Senator told me that he had had a conversation with John Adams and that if the subpoenas were issued,
Adams told him that there would be an embarrassing report issued concerning Mr. Kohn.
He asked me not to issue the subpoenas until he could speak with the chairman.
Senator McToth, am I in, of course, brief?
There was no direction if you prepared the subpoenas.
The subpoenas were prepared at the direction of the chairman.
Prior to the preparation of each subpoenas, on their about January 20th,
the state had you ever declared any subpoenas for production of lawyers for members?
No, I don't think so. I think that the one time one appeared to Mr. Adams' predictions.
Was there any relation to the demand for production of the lawyers' board members to the shine matter, Mr. Kohn?
No, sir.
And is it your testimony that regardless of the treatment of court and private shine,
your committee would have permitted production of the lawyers' board members?
Yes, sir. Senator McCaughty had always stated that he wanted members of the lawyer before him.
And those who served each other had absolutely no relation one for the other?
Now, when was the next attempt, or suggested by even Mr. Adams or Mr. Stevens,
concerning your termination of investigation of the army for your foregoing issuing subpoenas for production of the lawyers' board members?
Well, the following week, the week following January 19th and 22nd,
fight by accident, I ran into Mr. Adams in the downstairs cafeteria,
and we sat down and either had lunch or a cup of coffee,
and Mr. Adams asked me if Mr. Kohn were angry about the business of the threatened report concerning him.
I told him that I was sure that he was.
I told him what Mr. Kohn had told me that he thought that John Adams had no business threatening to put out a report on him.
I thought that it was a dishonest act when John's bought and that he was through with John. He would have nothing further to do with him.
Mr. Adams told me that as far as he was concerned, he was very sorry about Mr. Kohn's attitude because he said that he liked Mr. Kohn personally,
and he didn't want to have any disagreements with him.
He said that putting out of the subpoenas,
stopping of the subpoenas was something that he just had to do.
He said he would stop at nothing to prevent the loyal board members from coming in.
Now, there then followed some discussion about the subpoenas being stopped,
and he told me that this was nothing for a right-pone to be angry with John Adams about.
He said that the whole affair concerning the loyalty board and the stopping of the subpoenas was not a John Adams decision.
He said that this was a high administration decision.
He told me that he had had a conference with Bill Rogers of the Department of Justice.
He also told me that there had been conferences with the Attorney General's office.
That's about the substance of the conversation.
Mr. Adams bought to January 27th.
Ever since he complained with you concerning the late abuse by Mr. Kohn.
Abuse? Abuse or mistreatment?
No, I'd be nice to drive it, John.
No, no, he hadn't.
Now, Mr. Kohn, on March 5th, 1954,
did you ever launch an engagement with Miss Adams?
I yes, I did.
Anything was said on the staff of the United States of America.
Yes, sir.
Well, if anything was said,
we'd reference to the issuance of a report on the shine now.
Yes, sir. The launch was held at the...
We met for launch at the Methodist Building across the street.
And, certainly, a lot of people go there and the food is fine.
Mr. Adams and I set it one of the tables.
And I recalled asking, Mr. Adams,
was there going to be some sort of a report concerning Roy Kohn?
I told him that I had read in the papers or had heard the discussion,
talked that several senators had requested of the Army or the Defense Department
and alleged reports concerning Roy Kohn.
Mr. Adams told me that...
Mr. Adams said that, yes, that senators had asked for a report,
but he said he didn't think they were going to get it.
He told me not to worry about it.
He said there's nothing to it.
That was the end of that portion of the conversation.
We then talked about Mr. Adams's own personal position.
Was anything else stated on the occasion of the launch of March 5th
that relates to your specifications or charges?
Yes, sir. I think so.
Would you state it, please?
Yes, Mr. Adams said that he wanted to reestablish himself
on a friendly relationship with Senator McCarthy and Roy Kohn.
He said that Mr. Kohn had not been friendly with him since sometime in January.
He said that Senator McCarthy had let it be known that he wouldn't have anything further to do with John Adams.
He said that the position of the senator had reached the Pentagon
and that it was damaging to him.
The man assigned to contact with the committee if both the Chief Council and the Chairman of the Committee
would have nothing to do with him.
He asked me if I would help him in more or less patching up the differences as far as he was concerned.
I told him that I would see what I could do.
Have you stated the substantive conversation now March 5th
and so far as it relates to your charges?
Well, there was one other, I believe there was one other topic.